Types of hospital jobs
Hospitals have many departments with job opportunities ranging from entry-level to executive. You can find work in a hospital regardless of whether you have a medical background or a specific degree. For the most up-to-date salary information from Indeed, visit indeed.com/salaries.

Clinical
Clinical jobs are those that provide medical care to patients, such as doctors and nurses. They typically require a specialized degree and certification or licensing.

Here are six types of clinical hospital jobs:

1. Dietician
National average salary: $53,337 per year

Primary duties: Dieticians educate patients on proper diet and help them manage conditions, such as obesity and diabetes. They plan diets based on the patient’s goal, whether it includes weight loss, weight gain, managing a disease or improving their overall quality of life. They create personalized recipes and meal plans and track patients’ progress.

2. Medical technologist
National average salary: $58,346 per year

Primary duties: A medical technologist works in a hospital’s lab to perform tests, such as cell counts, drug tests and bacteria cultures. They prepare blood, tissue and other samples and use specialized equipment to test them. They record and interpret results and communicate them to doctors and laboratory supervisors.

3. Radiologic technician
National average salary: $70,753 per year

Primary duties: Radiologic technicians perform X-rays to help doctors produce diagnostic images for their patients. They might meet with patients to describe the process and answer questions, and they provide the patient’s healthcare team with the X-ray results.

4. Occupational therapist
National average salary: $82,693 per year

Primary duties: Occupational therapists help sick, disabled, injured and recovering patients perform daily tasks, such as dressing, bathing and preparing meals. They help people develop or regain the basic skills they need to care for themselves or have a job. These professionals provide patients with exercises and therapies to improve their skills and mobility. They might redesign living and working spaces with special equipment or technologies.

5. Registered nurse
National average salary: $92,702 per year

Primary duties: Nurses support doctors by caring for sick, injured or recovering patients and communicating with patients and families. They also examine patients, run tests, maintain patient records and help doctors during procedures. Registered nurses educate patients about their conditions and give them treatment advice. They might also provide them with emotional support.

6. Physician assistant
National average salary: $114,722 per year

Primary duties: Physician assistants assess, diagnose and treat patients under a licensed physician’s supervision. They order tests and bloodwork, prescribe medications,